


Network Working Group                                        E. Rescorla
Internet-Draft                                                RTFM, Inc.
Intended status:  Standards Track                      February 29, 2008
Expires:  September 1, 2008


                   Untangling Identity in SIP Systems
                    draft-rescorla-sip-identity.txt

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on September 1, 2008.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

Abstract

   There has been a lot of recent discussion about how to securely
   identify principals in SIP systems.  This document attempts to
   clarify the inherent technical limits of this effort and the
   capabilities offered by certain schemes.







Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2.  Background: Identity in the PSTN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
     2.1.  PSTN Topology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     2.2.  Routing Integrity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     2.3.  Caller Identification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   3.  Identity in SIP Systems  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     3.1.  SIP Topology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     3.2.  Channel Security Mechanisms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
       3.2.1.  Routing Integrity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
       3.2.2.  Caller Identification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     3.3.  Message Security Mechanisms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
       3.3.1.  S/MIME . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
       3.3.2.  Identity and Connected-Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     3.4.  Media Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
       3.4.1.  Mechanisms Requiring Confidentiality . . . . . . . . . 11
       3.4.2.  Mechanisms Required Integrity  . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   4.  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     4.1.  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     4.2.  Informational References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
   Intellectual Property and Copyright Statements . . . . . . . . . . 14




























Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


1.  Introduction

   From the perspective of the communicating parties, the "identity"
   service that they want is simple:  to know that the person on the
   other end of the line is who they think it is.  Because of the
   asymmetric nature of telephony, this actually represents two
   different services, one from the perspective of the caller and one
   from the perspective of the callee:
   Routing Integrity  The caller knows who he is trying to call--indeed
      he entered their number into his phone.  The service the caller
      wants is ROUTING INTEGRITY:  namely that the person he is talking
      to actually is who he intended to call.  This service is
      complicated to some extent by retargeting services such as call
      forwarding, but in those cases the caller wants to know that the
      retargeting was authorized by the intended recipient.
   Caller Identification  Unlike the caller, the callee generally does
      not have a preconceived idea of who he is trying to call.  Rather,
      his phone rings and he wants to know who is calling.  The service
      he wants is CALLER IDENTIFICATION.
   It is important to note that regardless of the technological means
   used to provide these services, they are extremely different
   conceptually.  ROUTING INTEGRITY is a verification problem:  the
   system needs to verify that you reached the person you were trying to
   reach.  By contrast, CALLER IDENTIFICATION is an information
   provision problem.

   A variety of technical mechanisms have been proposed (and are in use)
   to provide these services for SIP-based telephony [RFC3261].
   Recently, questions have been raised about the suitability of one
   such mechanism:  SIP Identity [RFC4474].  This draft is intended to
   provide a broader perspective on the identity problem, the inherent
   technical limitations on potential solutions, and the capabilities of
   the existing approaches.


2.  Background: Identity in the PSTN

   Before addressing identity in SIP systems, it is useful to start with
   identity in the PSTN.  The two most important facts about identity in
   the PSTN are these:
      The only valid identifiers were phone numbers.
      The PSTN is a fundamentally closed system with no security real
      security mechanisms to prevent insider attack.
   As we shall see, these two properties allow for only a fairly limited
   set of identity services.






Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


2.1.  PSTN Topology

   The PSTN is a hub-and-spoke topology, as shown below:

             Sub. 1 ----+                            +---- Sub. 4
                         \           Trunk          /
             Sub. 2 ------ CO-1 --------------- CO-2------ Sub. 5
                         /                          \
             Sub. 3 ----+                            +---- Sub. 6


   Each subscriber is connected by a physical circuit to a switch in
   their local CENTRAL OFFICE (CO).  Although there may be multiple
   phones in a single house, they are all electrically connected on the
   same local loop and are indistinguishable from the perspective of the
   CO Therefore, all phones on the same local loop have the same phone
   number.

   The CO is connected to other COs via trunk lines, which are used to
   carry calls in between COs.  Similarly, providers can connect to each
   other at dedicated switches which only serve to switch traffic and
   don't have any subscribers directly attached to them.  All of these
   connections are digital and speak SS7.  The CO switch is the analog/
   digital boundary.

2.2.  Routing Integrity

   From the very beginning, of telephony systems, it has been assumed
   that they provide routing integrity.  This was historically viewed
   more as a correctness guarantee as a security guarantee--if your
   phone calls don't go the right place, there's not much point in
   having a phone--but it is of course also a security guarantee.

   When a subscriber wants to call another subscriber, they enter the
   phone number on the phone and it gets transmitted over the analog
   voice channel in DTMF (again, we're just talking about the basic
   analog case).  The DTMF decoder at the CO switch decodes the DTMF and
   determines which number the caller intends to call.  If the number is
   assigned to that CO (and if the CO has an authoritative copy of which
   numbers have been ported), it can handle it locally.  If the number
   is not assigned to that switch, then the call needs to be routed to
   another switch.  This may be the final switch, or the call may be
   routed to another carrier and so on until it reaches the final
   switch.

   This routing information isn't kept locally, at least in the US.
   Instead, the switch needs to consult a numbering plan database [TODO:
   need the right name here] in order to determine which provider/switch



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   controls that number.  Once that is done, the switch routes the call
   down the appropriate trunk towards the appropriate destination.

   This system provides a relatively high degree of routing integrity
   provided that two invariants are preserved:
   o  The inter-switch interconnects are kept secure.
   o  The connection to the numbering database (and the database itself)
      is secure.
   Both of these invariants are enforced through having a closed system.
   The connections between the switches are not virtual but rather are
   manually configured physical circuits, so impersonating one switch to
   another is a matter of actually interfering with that cable.  The
   connection to the database is similarly manually configured [Note:  I
   don't know if this is physical or over the Internet, but this
   obviously isn't an architectural issue.]

   Both of these invariants, however, are very brittle against insider
   attack.  An attacker who controls a switch can reroute all calls that
   would pass through it [securityfocus-call-theft].  An attacker who
   controls the numbering database can inject arbitrary routes.  The
   basic assumption is that insiders will not attempt to attack the
   system.

2.3.  Caller Identification

   Unlike routing integrity, caller identification is a relatively
   recent feature of common phone systems, The typical residential
   presentation is a one or two line display that shows the phone number
   of the calling party as well as their name (call center presentation
   is of course different.)

   In the PSTN CID is provided by having the originating switch indicate
   (in the SS7 signaling) the calling party's phone number.  This is
   then modulated over the analog carrier for display on the callee's
   phone.  If the caller's name is provided, it is determined by the
   callee's local switch, which needs to do a database lookup against a
   third party database.

   Somewhat surprisingly, there is no enforcement whatsoever of the
   correctness of the provided number.  The originator simply asserts it
   and it is trusted by the receiver.  Moreover, if a call goes through
   intermediate carriers, then the trust here is transitive; each
   carrier trusts the previous carrier to provide correct information.
   In principle, it might be possible to do some sort of inbound route
   filtering using the numbering database (although that would only
   provide hop-by-hop assurance similar to that provided by uPRF) but in
   practice this is not done.




Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   The ability to forge the calling number is not limited to switches.
   Any subscriber with digital access (e.g., ISDN) to the system can
   generate any calling number it chooses.  Because the local switch
   knows which numbers are assigned to a given subscriber, it can in
   principle filter these assertions but even this is often not done.
   In other cases, subscribers can opt out of this kind of filtering in
   order to be allowed to assert numbers of their choice.

   The phone number to name mapping provided with caller id is even less
   trustworthy, since the databases are simply populated via the phone
   company's records, and they make no attempt to verify your real-world
   identity provided that you pay your bill.

   In summary, the caller identification service provided by the PSTN is
   completely untrustworthy, except as an assertion of the caller's
   intent.


3.  Identity in SIP Systems

   We now turn to the question of identity in SIP systems.  As before,
   we start with topology.

3.1.  SIP Topology

   The figure below shows the classic "SIP trapezoid", the paradigmatic
   configuration for SIP-based telephony.  To some extent, this is a
   hub-and-spoke system:  each user agent is connected to a SIP proxy
   and the signalling (mostly) goes between proxies.  However, for
   performance reasons the media is routed directly between the UAs.
   This is different from the PSTN, where the signalling and the media
   go through the same switches.
                   SIP
                    PROXY     --------------    PROXY
                 (atlanta.com)               (biloxi.com)
                /                                         \
           SIP /                                           \ SIP
              /                                             \
             UA                                             UA
     (alice@atlanta.com)  <-------- RTP -------->  (bob@biloxi.com)


   The most important difference between the PSTN and VoIP is that the
   traffic between the various entities is not carried over dedicated
   physical circuits but over the Internet.  As a consequence, an
   element cannot trust that data it receives claiming to be from
   another element in fact came from that element.  Cryptographic
   mechanisms are required to restore this security.



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


3.2.  Channel Security Mechanisms

   The simplest and most widely used SIP security mechanisms are
   intended to provide same kind of link security that the PSTN provides
   using dedicated circuits over an Internet transport.  In the SIP
   signalling system, there are two kinds of connections (UA-proxy and
   proxy-proxy) and this implies three kinds of security properties that
   must be enforced:
      A SIP UA knows that it is communicating with its proxy.
      A proxy knows which UA(s) it is communicating with.
      A proxy knows which proxy (proxies) it is communicating with.
   In SIP, these security properties are provided with two mechanisms:
   TLS and Digest Authentication.  Proxies authenticate to UAs and to
   each other via TLS and UAs authenticate to proxies via digest
   authentication. when Digest and TLS are used correctly, they are as
   secure, if not more secure, than the physical connections they
   replace.  For instance, it is possible to steal someone's phone
   number by connecting to the box on the outside of their house.
   However, if your SIP phone is authenticated via digest
   authentication, then even an attacker connected to the Internet cable
   outside your house cannot impersonate you to the proxy.

   Digest and TLS alone are sufficient to allow the construction of a
   SIP system with equivalent (arguably superior) signalling security
   (ignore the media for the moment) as that of the PSTN.  The basic
   principle is the same:  have a closed network where every proxy
   trusts every other proxy.

3.2.1.  Routing Integrity

   In the PSTN model, routing is done courtesy of a giant database.
   This is necessitated by the existence of a largely unstructured
   identifier space.  Because the SIP identifier space is structured
   along "user@domain" lines, less centralization is required.  Instead,
   messages directed to "alice@example.com" need to be routed to the
   proxy "example.com".  DNS [RFC3263] is used to identify the IP
   address of the relevant proxy and TLS certificates are used to
   authenticate it.

   The routing integrity properties of this system are similar, and
   perhaps somewhat superior to those of the PSTN.  As with the PSTN, if
   a proxy is compromised, then all traffic that passes through that
   proxy can be hijacked.  Similarly, while the DNS database need not be
   trusted, if the certificate authority which is trusted to issue proxy
   certificates is compromised, then an attacker can probably
   impersonate other sites, but CAs can be operated more securely than
   the number database server so this attack is probably more difficult.




Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   Note that the above only applies to SIP URIs that are in the
   "user@domain" form.  SIP UAs can also accept URIs that represent
   numbers in the PSTN (either as sip:  and tel:  URIs).  These calls
   must be routed through a PSTN gateway, at which point the security
   properties are those described in Section 2.2.

3.2.2.  Caller Identification

   If only channel security is in use, then caller identification in SIP
   relies on transitive trust.  In the basic RFC3261 system, the caller
   simply asserts their identity in the From header and the caller
   either trusts it or does not.  This is comparable to the case in the
   PSTN where an ISDN user or a PBX asserts caller identity and the
   switch does not check it.

   In addition, the originating proxy (or perhaps some proxy later in
   the chain) verify the user's identity and inserts it into the PAI
   header [RFC3325].  This header is explicitly intended to be trusted
   and so proxies are intended to do more than simply trust the user's
   From field.  However, PAI is not cryptographically protected in any
   way (other than being carried over the TLS connection, of course),
   and so any proxy in the network can generate any PAI value of its
   choice.  Thus, a single compromised SIP proxy can impersonate any
   user.

   If a call enters a SIP network via a PSTN gateway, the caller
   identification information (which, recall, is basically
   untrustworthy), can be inserted into the From or PAI headers, at
   which point it is as vulnerable as if it were a "user@domain"
   identity.

3.3.  Message Security Mechanisms

   As described in Section 3.2, The security properties provided by
   channel security mechanisms are less than optimal, and RFC 3261 and
   followon RFCs describe a set of mechanisms intended to provide
   superior security guarantees.  The basic principle is to secure the
   SIP messages themselves, rather than the channels that they pass
   over.  This allows the creation of security properties that are end-
   to-end rather than hop-by-hop.

3.3.1.  S/MIME

   RFC 3261 included support for encrypting and signing SIP message
   bodies with S/MIME.  The idea was that each end-user would have an
   S/MIME certificate containing their domain name.  Unfortunately, the
   burden of obtaining end-user certificates has proven to be so high
   that S/MIME has seen almost no deployment in SIP.  However, it is



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 8]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   instructive to examine the security properties that it would provide.

3.3.1.1.  Routing Integrity

   S/MIME allows the partial provision of routing integrity, even in the
   face of untrusted proxies.  In particular:
   o  S/MIME encryption can be used to prevent anyone but the intended
      recipient from reading the message body.
   o  If the callee signs his response, then the callee can know the
      identity of the person he reached.
   Unfortunately, neither feature interacts well with proxy-based
   retargeting.  If Alice calls Bob and Bob's proxy server retargets to
   Charlie (Bob's secretary), then the intended recipient will not be
   the same as the actual recipient.  Alice has no way of distinguishing
   this event from an attacker redirecting the traffic to Charlie.
   Thus, although S/MIME provides cryptographic mechanisms to stop
   retargeting, those mechanisms also stop legitimate retargeting.

   Thus, S/MIME can provide some additional routing integrity by giving
   the caller clear information about who they reached.  However, it
   does not provide any mechanical way of determining whether that was
   the right person or not.  It leaves that decision to humans.

   The S/MIME strategy does not work particularly well on calls to and
   from the PSTN.  Clearly, POTS phones do not have S/MIME certificates
   and will not be signing SIP messages.  The PSTN gateway can of course
   obtain certificates of the form "+16505551212@example.com" for each
   possible phone number (this only works for signatures, not for
   encryption) but it's not clear why a callee should trust such a
   certificate.  In order for this to work, there must be some way to
   determine which proxies are authorized to assert which phone numbers.
   This is NOT a problem with S/MIME per se.  It's a basic problem in
   going from a system where every node is fully trusted to one in which
   finer grained trust is desired.

3.3.1.2.  Caller Identification

   S/MIME does a better job of providing caller identification.  The
   caller can simply S/MIME sign her SIP messages and the recipient can
   verify them and display the identity in the caller's certificate as
   the caller's identity.  This is a relatively well understood problem
   in the S/MIME arena, though user interface issues persist.

   One caveat must be noted here.  Because S/MIME only the SIP body and
   not the headers, there are potential replay and cut-and-paste attacks
   on the protocol.  These can be greatly mitigated by using secure
   media which is cryptographically tied to the signalling.  More on
   this in Section XXX.



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008               [Page 9]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   All the same problems with S/MIME and PSTN gateway discussed in the
   previous section apply here as well.

3.3.2.  Identity and Connected-Identity

   The non-acceptance of S/MIME was widely perceived as a result of the
   difficulty in getting users to adopt UA-level certificates.  In
   response, new system was created:  SIP Identity [RFC4474].  SIP
   Identity is a compromise system was created which used certificates
   associated not with end-entities but with an "authentication service"
   associated with each SIP domain.  The authentication service verifies
   the users identity and then signs the message using a single
   certificate associated with the domain (this can be thought of as a
   cryptographically secure version of RFC 3325).  One important
   difference between SIP Identity and S/MIME is that SIP Identity can
   only be applied in requests.

   The reasoning for why this makes sense is as follows:  Namespaces in
   SIP are hierarchical.  Thus, "alice@example.org", means "user Alice
   in the domain example.org".  Thus, the operator of "example.org" is
   in the best position to say who Alice is and if they wanted to give
   someone else that address, they could do so.  Thus, it makes sense
   for the domain operator to be vouching for Alice's identity, which
   they do via the authentication service.  Thus, end-entity
   certificates as used in S/MIME are not required.

   One advantage of this mechanism over S/MIME is that the signature
   covers the headers as well as the body and therefore it provides
   slightly better anti-cut-and-paste properties than S/MIME.  Like
   S/MIME, SIP Identity can only provide a minimal level of security for
   identities from the PSTN.

3.3.2.1.  Routing Integrity

   SIP Identity provides the same routing integrity guarantees as the
   signing version of S/MIME:  the caller can verify the identity of the
   person they called but has no mechanical way of determining whether
   it was the right person or not.  However, because RFC 4474 is only
   usable with requests, this information is not provided in the INVITE.
   Instead, the callee needs to do a mid-dialog update as described in
   [RFC4916].

3.3.2.2.  Caller Identification

   SIP Identity provides the same caller identification guarantees as
   the S/MIME signatures over the invite:  the callee can securely
   identify the person calling them even in the face of malicious
   proxies operated by third parties.



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008              [Page 10]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


3.4.  Media Security

   The above discussion covers only signalling-level security.  However,
   a VoIP system doesn't provide useful security if the signalling is
   secure but the media is not.  There is common agreement on SRTP
   [RFC3711] as the protocol for encrypting RTP, but a variety of key
   management approaches have been designed.

   Because the signalling is used to set up the call, having a secure
   combined system requires cryptographically tying the signalling to
   the media.  For our purposes we can divide mechanisms for doing this
   into two categories:
   o  Those which require confidentiality in the signalling (e.g., SDES
      [RFC4568]).
   o  Those which require integrity in the signalling (e.g., DTLS-SRTP
      [I-D.ietf-sip-dtls-srtp-framework]).

               Note: ZRTP has a mode in which it operates
               independently of the signalling, but this has two
               undesirable consequences. First, there are known
               security problems with the voice-based short
               authentication string mechanism it uses. Second,
               it means that all the information in the signalling
               must be disregarded as untrusted, which is undesirable.

   FOOBAR

3.4.1.  Mechanisms Requiring Confidentiality

   One way of binding the media to the signalling is to carry a secret
   in the signalling which is then used to establish the keys for SRTP.
   SDES [RFC4568] is one such mechanism.

   If such a mechanism is used with S/MIME encryption, it can provide
   end-to-end security for the media because only the recipient sees the
   keys.  However, if S/MIME encryption is not used, any intermediate
   proxy can see the keys.  In addition, unless TLS encryption is used
   on every link, a passive attacker may be able to recover the traffic
   keys.  Either attack would allow the attacker to impersonate either
   side of the call to the other (whether on or off-path) and if he is
   on-path for the media, to decrypt all the media as well.

3.4.2.  Mechanisms Required Integrity

   Mechanisms also exist which depend only on the integrity of the
   signalling.  For instance, DTLS-SRTP
   [I-D.ietf-sip-dtls-srtp-framework] carries a fingerprint of the UA's
   certificate in the SIP signalling.  This cryptographically binds the



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008              [Page 11]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   signalling to the media plane key agreement protocol.

   In this system, the media is secure provided that the integrity of
   the signalling messages is preserved, which can be done either with
   S/MIME signatures or (more likely) with RFC 4474 Identity.  If either
   mechanism is used, the media is secure from attack by any proxy in
   the middle of the signalling, even if TLS is not used for some proxy-
   proxy links.

   It's important to understand that this sort of cryptographic binding
   simple extends the security boundary of the signalling to cover the
   media:  once you have verified the caller/callee's identity using
   whatever security mechanism you are using, the binding then allows
   you to be sure that the media came from the same entity.  However, if
   the signalling authenticates someone you have never heard of, or--as
   in the PSTN gateway case--provides minimal information about the real
   caller, then media encryption does not help to resolve that
   uncertainty.


4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

4.2.  Informational References

   [RFC3711]  Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K.
              Norrman, "The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)",
              RFC 3711, March 2004.

   [RFC4346]  Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla, "The Transport Layer Security
              (TLS) Protocol Version 1.1", RFC 4346, April 2006.

   [RFC4347]  Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu, "Datagram Transport Layer
              Security", RFC 4347, April 2006.

   [RFC4474]  Peterson, J. and C. Jennings, "Enhancements for
              Authenticated Identity Management in the Session
              Initiation Protocol (SIP)", RFC 4474, August 2006.

   [RFC3261]  Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston,
              A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R., Handley, M., and E.
              Schooler, "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol", RFC 3261,
              June 2002.

   [RFC3263]  Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne, "Session Initiation
              Protocol (SIP): Locating SIP Servers", RFC 3263,
              June 2002.



Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008              [Page 12]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


   [RFC3325]  Jennings, C., Peterson, J., and M. Watson, "Private
              Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) for
              Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks", RFC 3325,
              November 2002.

   [RFC4916]  Elwell, J., "Connected Identity in the Session Initiation
              Protocol (SIP)", RFC 4916, June 2007.

   [RFC4568]  Andreasen, F., Baugher, M., and D. Wing, "Session
              Description Protocol (SDP) Security Descriptions for Media
              Streams", RFC 4568, July 2006.

   [I-D.ietf-avt-dtls-srtp]
              McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla, "Datagram Transport Layer
              Security (DTLS) Extension to Establish Keys for  Secure
              Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)",
              draft-ietf-avt-dtls-srtp-02 (work in progress),
              February 2008.

   [I-D.ietf-sip-dtls-srtp-framework]
              Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla, "Framework
              for Establishing an SRTP Security Context using DTLS",
              draft-ietf-sip-dtls-srtp-framework-01 (work in progress),
              February 2008.

   [securityfocus-call-theft]
              Poulsen, K., "Commission Hearing Probes Vegas Vice Hacks",
              Security Focuse http://www.securityfocus.com/news/355.


Author's Address

   Eric Rescorla
   RTFM, Inc.
   2064 Edgewood Drive
   Palo Alto, CA  94303
   USA

   Email:  ekr@rtfm.com












Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008              [Page 13]

Internet-Draft                SIP Identity                 February 2008


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.


Acknowledgment

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is provided by the IETF
   Administrative Support Activity (IASA).





Rescorla                Expires September 1, 2008              [Page 14]

