


Network Working Group                                        E. Rescorla
Internet-Draft                                                RTFM, Inc.
Intended status:  Standards Track                           May 29, 2013
Expires:  November 30, 2013


                     Secure Caller-ID Fallback Mode
                  draft-rescorla-callerid-fallback-00

Abstract

   A major challenge with RFC 4474-style identity assertions has been
   that SIP operates in highly mediated and interworked environments.
   SIP requests may pass through gateways, policy enforcement devices or
   other entities that receive SIP requests and effectively act as user
   agents, re-initiating a request.  In these circumstances,
   intermediaries may recreate the fields protected by the RFC4474
   signature, making end-to end integrity impossible.  This document
   describes a mechanism for two compliant endpoints to exchange
   authentication data even in the face of intermediaries which remove
   all additional call signaling meta-data.

Legal

   THIS DOCUMENT AND THE INFORMATION CONTAINED THEREIN ARE PROVIDED ON
   AN "AS IS" BASIS AND THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE
   REPRESENTS OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE
   IETF TRUST, AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE, DISCLAIM ALL
   WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY
   WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION THEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE
   ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
   FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."




Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


   This Internet-Draft will expire on November 30, 2013.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

   This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF
   Contributions published or made publicly available before November
   10, 2008.  The person(s) controlling the copyright in some of this
   material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow
   modifications of such material outside the IETF Standards Process.
   Without obtaining an adequate license from the person(s) controlling
   the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modified
   outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may
   not be created outside the IETF Standards Process, except to format
   it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into languages other
   than English.























Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   2.  Operating Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   3.  Solution Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   4.  Phone Number Authentication  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   5.  Call Detail Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     5.1.  Credential Lookup  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     5.2.  Federated Verification Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     5.3.  Substitution Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     5.4.  Escalation to VoIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     5.5.  Storing under the callee's number  . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   6.  Privacy Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   7.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11




































Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


1.  Introduction

   A major challenge with RFC 4474-style identity assertions has been
   that SIP operates in highly mediated and interworked environments.
   SIP requests may pass through gateways, policy enforcement devices or
   other entities that receive SIP requests and effectively act as user
   agents, re-initiating a request.  In these circumstances,
   intermediaries may recreate the fields protected by the RFC4474
   signature, making end-to end integrity impossible.  This document
   describes a mechanism for two compliant endpoints to exchange
   authentication data even in the face of intermediaries which remove
   all additional call signaling meta-data.


2.  Operating Environment

   This section describes the environment in which the proposed
   mechanism is intended to operate.  In the simplest setting, Alice is
   calling Bob through some set of gateways and/or the PSTN.  Both Alice
   and Bob have smart devices which we can modify, but they do not have
   a clear connection between them:  Alice cannot inject any data into
   the system which Bob can read, with the exception of her asserted
   E.164 number.  Thus, this number is the only value which can be used
   for coordination.

                              +---------+
                             /           \
                         +---             +---+
    +----------+        /                      \        +----------+
    |          |       |        Gateways        |       |          |
    |   Alice  |<----->|         and/or         |<----->|    Bob   |
    | (caller) |       |          PSTN          |       | (callee) |
    +----------+        \                      /        +----------+
                         +---             +---+
                             \           /
                              +---------+

   In a more complicated setting, Alice and/or Bob may not have a
   programmable device, but have a programmable gateway that services
   them, as shown below:











Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


                               +---------+
                              /           \
                          +---             +---+
    +----------+  +--+   /                      \   +--+  +----------+
    |          |  |  |  |        Gateways        |  |  |  |          |
    |   Alice  |<-|GW|->|         and/or         |<-|GW|->|    Bob   |
    | (caller) |  |  |  |          PSTN          |  |  |  | (callee) |
    +----------+  +--+   \                      /   +--+  +----------+
                          +---             +---+
                              \           /
                               +---------+

   In such a case, Alice might have an analog connection to her gateway/
   switch which is responsible for her identity.  Similarly, the gateway
   would verify Alice's identity, generate the right caller-id
   information and provide caller-id information to Bob using ordinary
   POTS mechanisms.

   As current envisioned, this fallback mechanism is intended to be
   invoked when RFC4474-style signatures are unusable, broken or absent;
   when a valid Identity header appears in a request, there is no need
   for recipients to invoke this mechanism.  Because the caller will not
   necessarily know what intermediaries or gateways a call will traverse
   on its way to a callee, the caller would however use the fallback
   mechanism described in this document as a precautionary measure
   whenever a call is placed.


3.  Solution Overview

   Our proposed solution contains two major elements:

   o  Each phone number in the system--or perhaps a gateway acting on
      its behalf--is associated with credentials which can be used to
      prove ownership of that number.
   o  A centralized Call Detail Service (CDS) which a caller and a
      callee can use to jointly establish the provenance of the call.

   Prior to placing a call, the caller contacts the CDS and stores a
   record indicating his intention to call the callee.  Once the callee
   receives the indication of an incoming call, he contacts the CDS to
   verify the validity of the call.  If that check succeeds, he can then
   present the callerid information as valid.  Otherwise, the call is
   unverifiable.  Note that this does not necessarily mean that the call
   is bogus; because we expect incremental deployment many legitimate
   calls will be unverifiable.





Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


4.  Phone Number Authentication

   Each phone number in the system is associated with a set of
   credentials which can be used to prove ownership of that number.  For
   purposes of exposition we will assume that ownership is associated
   with the endpoint (e.g., a smartphone) but it might well be
   associated with a gateway acting for the endpoint instead.  The
   credentials are in the form of an asymmetric key pair or pairs
   authenticated by a certificate chain.  The keys must be suitable for
   both encryption and digital signature.

   The enrollment process itself is described in another document [TODO:
   REF].  For purposes of this document, we simply assume that elements
   have somehow obtained credentials and that there is some mechanism
   (e.g., a global directory service) for any agent in the system to
   retrieve another agent's credentials.


5.  Call Detail Service

   An overview of the basic calling and verification process is shown
   below.  In this diagram, we assume that Alice has the number
   +1.111.111.1111 and Bob has the number +2.222.222.2222.

Alice                       Call Detail Service                     Bob
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
<-  Authenticate as 1.111.111.1111  ---->

Store E(1.222.222.2222,1.111.111.1111) ->

Call from 1.111.111.1111 ---------------------------------------------->


                                    <-------------- Retrieve call record
                                                         1.111.111.1111?

                                    E(1.222.222.2222,1.111.111.1111) -->

                                               [Ring phone with callerid
                                                       = 1.111.111.1111]

   When Alice wishes to make a call to Bob, she must first retrieve
   Bob's credentials.  She then contacts the CDS and authenticates to
   prove her ownership of her E.164 number.  Once she has authenticated,
   she then stores a Call Data Record (CDR) on the CDS.  The CDR is
   digitally signed and then encrypted under Bob's public key.
   (Alternatively, Alice and Bob could each have ECDH keys and the CDR
   could be encrypted under the shared key, though this has slightly



Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


   different privacy properties.)  The CDR would also have some sort of
   timestamp to prevent replay.  [The CDS should expire CDRs after a
   reasonable period of time, on the order of 10s of seconds, but a
   timestamp provides a double-check on correct behavior of the CDS.]
   The CDR is stored under Alice's number.  [NOTE:  It is also possible
   to invert this and have the CDR stored under the callee's number.
   See Section 5.5 for a discussion of this.]

   Once Alice has stored the CDR, she then places the call to Bob as
   usual.  At this point, Bob's phone would usually ring and display
   Alice's number (+1.111.111.1111), which is provided by the usual
   caller-id mechanisms (i.e., the CIN field of the IAM).  Instead,
   Bob's phone transparently contacts the CDS and requests any current
   CDRs from Alice to any number (because the target phone number is
   encrypted, the CDS does not know the callee.)  The CDS responds with
   any such CDRs (assuming they exists).  If no CDR exists, the CDS
   generates a random CDR and sends it to Bob. (This helps prevent
   queries of how many calls Alice has made).

   Once Bob retrieves the encrypted CDR, he decrypts it with his private
   key.  If the call was for him, then he can read it, and verify the
   signature.  If not it is simply random data and can be rejected.  The
   result is that even though we do not require callee authentication,
   anyone not the callee cannot determine who the caller is calling.
   Because the CDS responds with random responses if no records exist,
   the attacker cannot distinguish these replies from CDRs encrypted to
   someone other than himself.

5.1.  Credential Lookup

   In order to encrypt the CDR, the caller needs access to the callee's
   credentials (specifically the public key).  This requires some sort
   of directory/lookup system.  This document does not specify any
   particular scheme, but a list of requirements would be something
   like:

   Obviously, if there is a single central database and the caller and
   callee each contact it in real time to determine the other's
   credentials, then this represents a real privacy risk, as the central
   database learns about each call.  A number of mechanisms are
   potentially available to mitigate this:

   o  Have endpoints pre-fetch credentials for potential counterparties
      (e.g., their address book or the entire database).
   o  Have caching servers in the user's network that proxy their
      fetches and thus conceal the relationship between the user and the
      credentials they are fetching.




Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


   Clearly, there is a privacy/timeliness tradeoff in that getting
   really up-to-date knowledge about credential validity requires
   contacting the credential directory in real-time (e.g., via OCSP).
   This is somewhat mitigated for the caller's credentials in that he
   can get short-term credentials right before placing a call which only
   reveals his calling rate, but not who he is calling.  Alternately,
   the CDS can verify the caller's credentials via OCSP, though of
   course this requires the callee to trust the CDS's verification.
   This approach does not work as well for the callee's credentials, but
   the risk there is more modest since an attacker would need to both
   have the callee's credentials and regularly poll the database for
   every potential caller.

   We consider the exact best point in the tradeoff space to be an open
   issue.

5.2.  Federated Verification Services

   The discussion above is written in terms of a single CDS, but this
   potentially has scaling problems (as well as privacy problems, as
   discussed in Section 6).  In practice, it is preferable to have a
   federated CDS.  The general idea is that the appropriate credential
   holder for a given number can also select an appropriate CDS.  The
   address of the CDS is stored in the callee's credentials, thus
   allowing the caller to determine the appropriate CDS for a given
   caller prior to calling them.  Note that the caller already needs the
   callee's credentials in order to do the encryption of the CDR.

5.3.  Substitution Attacks

   The security properties of this mechanism are fairly limited:  all
   that receipt of the CDR proves is that Alice is trying to call Bob
   (or at least was as of very recently).  It does not prove that this
   particular incoming call is from Alice.  Consider the scenario in
   which we have a service which provides an automatic callback to a
   user-provided number.  In that case, the attacker can arrange for a
   false caller-id value, as shown below:














Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 8]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


 Attacker            Callback Service              CDS               Bob
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 Place call to Bob ---------->

                             Store CDR for
                             CS:Bob -------------->

 Call from CS (forged caller-id info)  -------------------------------->

                             Call from CS ---------------------------> X


                                                     <----- Retrieve CDR
                                                              for CS:Bob

                             CDR for CS:Bob --------------------------->

                                         [Ring phone with callerid = CS]

   In order to mount this attack, the attacker contacts the Callback
   Service (CS) and provides it with Bob's number.  This causes the CS
   to initiate a call to Bob. As before, the CS contacts the CDS to
   insert an appropriate CDR and then initiates a call to Bob. Because
   it is a valid CS injecting the CDR, none of the security checks
   mentioned above help.  However, the attacker simultaneously initiates
   a call to Bob using forged caller-id information corresponding to the
   CS.  If he wins the race with the CS, then Bob's phone will attempt
   to verify the attacker's call (and succeed since they are
   indistinguishable) and the CS's call will go to busy/voice mail/call
   waiting.  Note:  in a SIP environment, the callee might notice that
   there were multiple INVITEs and thus detect this attack.

5.4.  Escalation to VoIP

   If the call is to be carried over the PSTN, then the security
   properties described above are about the best we can do.  However, if
   Alice and Bob are both VoIP capable, then there is an opportunity to
   provide a higher quality of service and security.  The basic idea is
   that the CDR contains rendezvous information for Alice (e.g., Alice's
   SIP URI).  Once Bob has verified Alice's CDR, he can initiate a VoIP
   connection directly to Alice, thus bypassing the PSTN.  This
   connection can be initiated either in serial (i.e., instead of
   ringing the phone) or in parallel (i.e., starting with a POTS call
   and then switching over to the VoIP call.)  [TODO:  How aggressive
   should we be about this kind of bypass?  What if the user's network
   environment is really restricted?]





Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013               [Page 9]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


5.5.  Storing under the callee's number

   An alternative design (due to Richard Barnes) is to store the CDR
   under the callee's number rather than the caller's.  This has the
   advantage that the callee does not need to do trial decryption
   because he knows a priori who the call is for.  How important this is
   depends on the calling rate of the caller--if there is only one call
   in a given interval, then this is not a big deal, but if there are
   hundreds, then the cost to verify might be large depending on the
   speed of the callee's processor.

   A difficulty with this design is that we then do not want to validate
   the caller (for privacy reasons) and so it now becomes hard to
   prevent spamming of the CDS by fake callers.  It might be possible to
   have a caller proxy service which hid caller identities, but this is
   then another needed piece of infrastructure.


6.  Privacy Considerations

   The mechanism described here is designed to minimize how much
   information is leaked about who is calling who.  Because CDRs are
   encrypted, the CDS does not directly learn who is calling who.
   However, the CDS does learn how many calls the caller is making and
   the IP address of the callees.  The callee can use an anonymity
   network such as Tor to hide their IP address, but we expect that this
   will be uncommon.  Because the CDS is federated, callees can minimize
   the information available to any specific CDS.  It is not possible to
   hide the number of calls that that caller makes without some sort of
   Private Information Retrieval (PIR) mechanism.

   Because the caller needs to retrieve the callee's credentials/
   certificate, there is some information leakage from the caller to the
   directory service.  A caching/coalescence mechanism reduces this to
   some extent, and it might in principle be possible for callers to
   download the entire database, thus reducing the leakage.  Finally, if
   the database is federated (as in DNS) then callees can control who
   has knowledge that their records have been accessed.


7.  Security Considerations

   The primary attack we seek to prevent is an attacker convincing the
   callee that a given call is from some other caller C. There are two
   scenarios to be concerned with:






Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013              [Page 10]

Internet-Draft             Caller-ID Fallback                   May 2013


   o  The attacker wishes to simulate a call when none exists.
   o  The attacker wishes to substitute himself for an existing call as
      described in Section 5.3

   If an attacker can inject fake CDRs into the CDS or in the
   communication from the CDS to the callee, he can mount either attack.
   In order to prevent this, either the communication to the CDS should
   be secured in transport (e.g., with TLS) or the CDRs should be
   digitally signed by the caller and verified by the callee.  For
   privacy and robustness reasons, both are preferable.  In particular,
   if only transport security is used, then a compromised CDS can forge
   call origination information.

   The entire system depends on the security of the authentication
   infrastructure.  If the authentication credentials for a given number
   are compromised, then an attacker can impersonate calls from that
   number.

   The substitution attack if Section 5.3 is possible unless some
   mechanism stronger than simple time coincidence is used for
   associating the media with the authentication information.  In
   practice, this means using VoIP rather than POTS, as described in
   Section 5.4.  Minimally, if the transport parameters are bound to the
   CDR (if only transitively via the SIP URI), then an attacker will
   find it more difficult to substitute his own media.  Optimally, the
   media should be protected with SRTP and the parameters should be
   cryptographically bound to the CDR.


Author's Address

   Eric Rescorla
   RTFM, Inc.
   2064 Edgewood Drive
   Palo Alto, CA  94303
   USA

   Phone:  +1 650 678 2350
   Email:  ekr@rtfm.com












Rescorla                Expires November 30, 2013              [Page 11]

